project-rules.md, before:

# Project Rules for AI Agents - Optimized Version

## 🚨 CRITICAL RULES - ALWAYS CHECK FIRST
| Rule | Action Required | Why Critical |
|------|----------------|--------------|
| **WAIT** in prompt | **STOP** - Get explicit authorization before acting | Prevents unauthorized actions |
| **Git Operations: Git Bash MANDATORY** | **ALWAYS** use Git Bash terminal for Git operations | Ensures reliable git integration and path handling |
| **Server Management: PowerShell PREFERRED** | **USE** PowerShell for server management and testing on Windows | Better Windows process management and diagnostics |
| **No Remote Push** | **NEVER** push without explicit user permission | Security requirement |
| **AJAX Pattern** | **ALWAYS** use `isset($_POST['action'])` detection | Prevents JSON/HTML errors |
| **Working Directory** | **ALWAYS** operate from `otter/` root | Ensures correct path resolution |

---

## 🎯 CORE PRINCIPLES
- **MVP Focus:** Simple, reliable, accurate, WCAG compliant
- **No Backwards Compatibility:** Clean implementation, no legacy support needed
- **AI Agent Autonomy:** Handle all tasks without user intervention unless authorization required
- **Context-Based Terminal Usage:** Use appropriate terminal for specific tasks

---

## 🖥️ TERMINAL USAGE GUIDELINES

### **Git Operations: Git Bash MANDATORY**
- **Path:** `C:\Program Files\Git\bin\bash.exe`
- **Why Required:** Provides reliable git integration and Unix-style path handling
- **Commands:** `git add`, `git commit`, `git push`, `git status`, `git log`, `git branch`
- **Known Issues:** Git operations in PowerShell can have path handling and integration problems

### **Server Management & Testing: PowerShell 7 (pwsh) PREFERRED (Windows)**
- **Why Preferred:** Better Windows process management, native HTTP testing, and diagnostic tools
- **Commands:** `php -S localhost:8000`, `Invoke-WebRequest`, `Test-NetConnection`, `tasklist`, `taskkill`
- **Environment:** Windows Terminal with PowerShell 7 (pwsh) recommended; Git Bash reserved for Git operations
- **Known Issues:** Path separators may need adjustment for PHP commands
- **Stability Tip:** Use `-NoProfile` for scripted commands and append `| Out-String` to avoid console glitches

### **Development Tasks: Context Dependent**
- **File Operations:** Either terminal works well
- **PHP Execution:** Either terminal works well
- **Path Handling:** Choose based on path style needed (Unix vs Windows)

---

## ⚡ QUICK REFERENCE COMMANDS

### Git Operations (Git Bash MANDATORY)
```bash
# View operations
git log --oneline -10
git diff
git branch -a
git status

# Basic operations
git add .
git commit -m "message"
git checkout -b feature-name
git checkout main

# Remote operations (REQUIRES USER PERMISSION)
git push origin main  # NEVER without permission
```

### Server Management (PowerShell 7 PREFERRED)
```powershell
# Start server (PowerShell)
php -S localhost:8000 -d error_reporting=E_ALL -d log_errors=1 -d error_log=php_errors.log

# Check server status (PowerShell)
Test-NetConnection -ComputerName localhost -Port 8000 | Out-String
tasklist | findstr php | Out-String

# Stop server (PowerShell)
taskkill /F /IM php.exe

# HTTP testing (PowerShell)
Invoke-WebRequest http://localhost:8000/health_check.php | Out-String
```

### Git Bash Server Management (Alternative)
```bash
# Start server (Git Bash)
php -S localhost:8000 -d error_reporting=E_ALL -d log_errors=1 -d error_log=php_errors.log &

# Check server status (Git Bash)
ps aux | grep php

# Stop server (Git Bash)
pkill -f "php -S localhost:8000"

# HTTP testing (Git Bash)
curl -I http://localhost:8000/health_check.php
```

### AJAX Handler Pattern (PHP)
```php
<?php
ob_start();
header('Content-Type: application/json');

if (isset($_POST['action'])) {
    try {
        ob_clean();
        $response = ['success' => true, 'data' => 'result'];
        echo json_encode($response);
    } catch (Exception $e) {
        ob_clean();
        echo json_encode(['success' => false, 'error' => $e->getMessage()]);
    }
    exit;
}
ob_end_flush();
?>
```

---

## 🔧 AI AGENT RESPONSIBILITIES

### ✅ DO THESE AUTOMATICALLY
- **Use appropriate terminal for specific tasks**
- Handle ALL terminal operations without asking user
- Manage development environment proactively
- Test functionality after every significant change
- Update changelog before major commits
- Suggest automation tools when recurring issues detected
- Escalate repeated errors to user with systemic solutions

### ❌ NEVER DO THESE WITHOUT PERMISSION
- Push to remote repositories
- Execute destructive operations without confirmation
- Introduce security/privacy features unless requested
- Ask user to perform tasks you can do yourself
- **Use Git Bash for server management when PowerShell is available**

### 🚨 ESCALATION TRIGGERS
- Same error occurs more than once → Propose systemic solution
- Destructive operation detected → Request explicit confirmation
- No linter/formatter detected → Suggest adding one
- Documentation changes → Update all related references
- **Wrong terminal for task → Switch to appropriate terminal**

---

## ✅ SAFE OPERATIONS (PRE-APPROVED)

These actions are low-risk and do not require explicit approval each time:
- Read/search files, run scoped codebase searches, and list directories
- Start/stop local PHP server; run health checks and diagnostics
- Tail/read `php_errors.log` and verify cache directories/files
- Generate caches via admin/dashboard or run CLI tests to refresh data
- Create/switch local branches, stage commits; update local changelog/docs

### Approval still required
- Pushing to remotes, changing remotes, or force operations
- Destructive edits, mass refactors, or changes to auth/secrets
- Any operation impacting production infrastructure

---

## 🧠 TOKEN OPTIMIZATION PRACTICES

- Prefer file/path references and small excerpts over large pastes
- Read large artifacts directly from disk instead of copying into chat
- Batch routine checks (status/build/test/lint) to reduce round trips
- Start with scoped, semantic searches; expand only if no hits
- Use quick checks first: health endpoint, tail `php_errors.log`, list `cache/<ent>`

---

## 🖥️ DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT

### Terminal Configuration
- **Git Operations:** Git Bash (`C:\Program Files\Git\bin\bash.exe`) - **MANDATORY**
- **Server Management:** PowerShell 7 (pwsh) - **PREFERRED**
- **Development Tasks:** Context dependent - choose appropriate terminal
- **How to Open:** 
  - Windows Terminal: Configure profiles for PowerShell 7 (default) and Git Bash (git only)
  - VS Code/Cursor: Terminal dropdown → Select PowerShell 7 (pwsh) or Git Bash
  - Command Palette: "Terminal: Select Default Profile" → Choose PowerShell 7 (pwsh)
  - Direct: Run appropriate terminal executable

### Server Configuration
- **Type:** PHP built-in development server
- **Port:** 8000 (http://localhost:8000)
- **Directory:** Always start from `otter/` root
- **Health Check:** `http://localhost:8000/health_check.php`

### File Structure
- **Root:** `otter/` directory
- **Changelog:** `changelog.md` (root - single source of truth)
- **Config:** `config/` directory
- **Tests:** `tests/` directory
- **Assets:** `css/`, `js/`, `lib/` directories

### Path Implementation
- **Universal Relative Paths:** No environment detection needed
- **Simple URLs:** Direct relative paths (e.g., `assets/css/admin.css`)
- **Cross-Server Compatible:** Works on any server structure
- **PATH_INFO Handling:** Always clean PATH_INFO before redirects

---

## 🧪 TESTING PROTOCOL

### Pre-Testing Checklist
1. ✅ **Using appropriate terminal for task**
2. ✅ Server running: Check with appropriate command
3. ✅ PHP processes: Check with appropriate command
4. ✅ Working directory: Should show `otter/`
5. ✅ Error log: Check `php_errors.log`

### Testing Sequence
1. **Ensure appropriate terminal is active**
2. Start server with appropriate command
3. Wait 2-3 seconds for initialization
4. Use appropriate HTTP testing command
5. Verify response codes and content
6. Check PHP errors in terminal output
7. Review error log for details

### Error Recovery
- **Port conflicts:** Stop server with appropriate command or use different port
- **Server won't start:** Check PHP processes and port availability
- **Unexpected responses:** Check PHP syntax and error logs
- **Timeouts:** Verify server is actually running
- **Wrong terminal:** Switch to appropriate terminal for task

---

## 📝 CHANGELOG MANAGEMENT

### Commands
- **`changelog`:** Document all session changes
- **`changelog status`:** Document current application functionality

### Timestamp Generation
```bash
# Git Bash
date +"%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S"
```
```powershell
# PowerShell
Get-Date -Format "yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss"
```

### Changelog Location
`changelog.md` (root)

---

## 🔒 SAFETY PROCEDURES

### Pre-Operation Checks
- **Verify appropriate terminal is active**
- Verify working directory: Should show `otter/`
- Check repository status: `git status` (Git Bash)
- Confirm branch: `git branch -a` (Git Bash)
- Backup changes: `git stash` if needed (Git Bash)

### Operation Validation
- Review changes: `git diff` (Git Bash)
- Validate staged: `git diff --cached` (Git Bash)
- Test functionality after commits
- Confirm remote operations before pushing

### Emergency Procedures
- **Git hangs:** Use Git Bash, or try `git config --global --unset core.pager`
- **Server issues:** Check port conflicts and PHP processes with appropriate terminal
- **AJAX fails:** Verify detection pattern and JSON formatting
- **Paths break:** Confirm relative path implementation
- **Wrong terminal:** Switch to appropriate terminal for task

---

## 🎯 SUCCESS CRITERIA
- ✅ **Appropriate terminal used for specific tasks**
- ✅ No duplicate code between classes
- ✅ Universal relative paths work across all scenarios
- ✅ Simple, consistent relative paths generated
- ✅ Specific, actionable error messages
- ✅ Simpler, more maintainable code
- ✅ Multi-enterprise architecture supported
- ✅ WCAG compliance maintained
- ✅ Clean implementation without legacy requirements

---

## 📋 COMMAND REFERENCE

### Git Bash Commands (Git Operations MANDATORY)
- Use `ls -la` to list files
- Use `pwd` to print working directory
- Use `git` commands for all version control operations
- Use `date +"%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S"` for timestamps

### PowerShell Commands (Server Management PREFERRED)
- Use `dir` or `ls` to list files
- Use `pwd` to print working directory
- Use `Test-NetConnection -ComputerName localhost -Port 8000` to check port status
- Use `tasklist | findstr php` to check PHP processes
- Use `taskkill /F /IM php.exe` to stop server
- Use `Invoke-WebRequest http://localhost:8000/health_check.php` for HTTP testing
- Use `Get-Date -Format "yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss"` for timestamps

### Git Commands (Git Bash MANDATORY)
```bash
git log --oneline -10
git diff
git branch -a
git status
git add .
git commit -m "message"
git push origin main  # NEVER without permission
git stash
git checkout -b feature-name
git checkout main
```

---

## 🚀 IMPLEMENTATION NOTES

### Critical Success Factors
1. **Use Git Bash for all Git operations**
2. **Use PowerShell for server management on Windows**
3. **Choose appropriate terminal for specific tasks**
4. **Never push to remote without explicit user permission**
5. **Follow AJAX detection patterns to prevent JSON errors**
6. **Execute all operations from otter/ directory**
7. **Document all changes in changelog**
8. **Test functionality after every significant change**

### Quality Assurance
- **Verify appropriate terminal is active before operations**
- Test all git operations before implementing
- Verify server functionality after changes
- Check for PHP syntax errors
- Validate AJAX responses
- Confirm WCAG compliance
- Maintain MVP focus throughout development

---

## 📚 DOCUMENTATION STANDARDS
- **Target Audience:** AI agents unless directed otherwise
- **Optimization:** Structure for AI agent comprehension and action
- **Clarity:** Use clear, actionable language
- **Completeness:** Provide sufficient context for autonomous operation
- **Terminal Focus:** Document appropriate terminal for each task type

---

## ⚠️ KNOWN ISSUES & BEST PRACTICES

### Git Bash Issues
- **Path Handling:** Git operations work best with Unix-style paths
- **Integration:** Native git integration prevents command conflicts
- **Process Management:** Limited Windows process management capabilities

### PowerShell Issues
- **Path Separators:** May need forward slashes for PHP commands
- **Git Integration:** Can have issues with git command integration
- **Process Management:** Excellent Windows process management

### Best Practices
- **Git Operations:** Always use Git Bash for reliability
- **Server Management:** Use PowerShell on Windows for better process control
- **Development Tasks:** Choose terminal based on specific task requirements
- **Documentation:** Always specify which terminal for which task
- **Testing:** Use PowerShell for Windows-specific diagnostics

---

*These optimized rules provide comprehensive guidance for AI agents working with this PHP project, emphasizing context-based terminal usage, automation-friendly procedures, safety measures, and MVP development principles.*

Commit message:

2025-09-04 08:25:00 - Add Git push shortcut; pin SFTP action version

project-rules.md, after:

# Project Rules for AI Agents - Optimized Version

## 🚨 CRITICAL RULES - ALWAYS CHECK FIRST
| Rule | Action Required | Why Critical |
|------|----------------|--------------|
| **WAIT** in prompt | **STOP** - Get explicit authorization before acting | Prevents unauthorized actions |
| **Git Operations: Git Bash MANDATORY** | **ALWAYS** use Git Bash terminal for Git operations | Ensures reliable git integration and path handling |
| **Server Management: PowerShell PREFERRED** | **USE** PowerShell for server management and testing on Windows | Better Windows process management and diagnostics |
| **No Remote Push** | **NEVER** push without explicit user permission | Security requirement |
| **AJAX Pattern** | **ALWAYS** use `isset($_POST['action'])` detection | Prevents JSON/HTML errors |
| **Working Directory** | **ALWAYS** operate from `otter/` root | Ensures correct path resolution |

---

## 🎯 CORE PRINCIPLES
- **MVP Focus:** Simple, reliable, accurate, WCAG compliant
- **No Backwards Compatibility:** Clean implementation, no legacy support needed
- **AI Agent Autonomy:** Handle all tasks without user intervention unless authorization required
- **Context-Based Terminal Usage:** Use appropriate terminal for specific tasks

---

## 🖥️ TERMINAL USAGE GUIDELINES

### **Git Operations: Git Bash MANDATORY**
- **Path:** `C:\Program Files\Git\bin\bash.exe`
- **Why Required:** Provides reliable git integration and Unix-style path handling
- **Commands:** `git add`, `git commit`, `git push`, `git status`, `git log`, `git branch`
- **Known Issues:** Git operations in PowerShell can have path handling and integration problems

### **Server Management & Testing: PowerShell 7 (pwsh) PREFERRED (Windows)**
- **Why Preferred:** Better Windows process management, native HTTP testing, and diagnostic tools
- **Commands:** `php -S localhost:8000`, `Invoke-WebRequest`, `Test-NetConnection`, `tasklist`, `taskkill`
- **Environment:** Windows Terminal with PowerShell 7 (pwsh) recommended; Git Bash reserved for Git operations
- **Known Issues:** Path separators may need adjustment for PHP commands
- **Stability Tip:** Use `-NoProfile` for scripted commands and append `| Out-String` to avoid console glitches

### **Development Tasks: Context Dependent**
- **File Operations:** Either terminal works well
- **PHP Execution:** Either terminal works well
- **Path Handling:** Choose based on path style needed (Unix vs Windows)

---

## ⚡ QUICK REFERENCE COMMANDS

### Git Operations (Git Bash MANDATORY)
```bash
# View operations
git log --oneline -10
git diff
git branch -a
git status

# Basic operations
git add .
git commit -m "message"
git checkout -b feature-name
git checkout main

# Remote operations (REQUIRES USER PERMISSION)
git push origin main  # NEVER without permission
```

### Server Management (PowerShell 7 PREFERRED)
```powershell
# Start server (PowerShell)
php -S localhost:8000 -d error_reporting=E_ALL -d log_errors=1 -d error_log=php_errors.log

# Check server status (PowerShell)
Test-NetConnection -ComputerName localhost -Port 8000 | Out-String
tasklist | findstr php | Out-String

# Stop server (PowerShell)
taskkill /F /IM php.exe

# HTTP testing (PowerShell)
Invoke-WebRequest http://localhost:8000/health_check.php | Out-String
```

### Git Bash Server Management (Alternative)
```bash
# Start server (Git Bash)
php -S localhost:8000 -d error_reporting=E_ALL -d log_errors=1 -d error_log=php_errors.log &

# Check server status (Git Bash)
ps aux | grep php

# Stop server (Git Bash)
pkill -f "php -S localhost:8000"

# HTTP testing (Git Bash)
curl -I http://localhost:8000/health_check.php
```

### AJAX Handler Pattern (PHP)
```php
<?php
ob_start();
header('Content-Type: application/json');

if (isset($_POST['action'])) {
    try {
        ob_clean();
        $response = ['success' => true, 'data' => 'result'];
        echo json_encode($response);
    } catch (Exception $e) {
        ob_clean();
        echo json_encode(['success' => false, 'error' => $e->getMessage()]);
    }
    exit;
}
ob_end_flush();
?>
```

---

## 🔧 AI AGENT RESPONSIBILITIES

### ✅ DO THESE AUTOMATICALLY
- **Use appropriate terminal for specific tasks**
- Handle ALL terminal operations without asking user
- Manage development environment proactively
- Test functionality after every significant change
- Update changelog before major commits
- Suggest automation tools when recurring issues detected
- Escalate repeated errors to user with systemic solutions

### ❌ NEVER DO THESE WITHOUT PERMISSION
- Push to remote repositories
- Execute destructive operations without confirmation
- Introduce security/privacy features unless requested
- Ask user to perform tasks you can do yourself
- **Use Git Bash for server management when PowerShell is available**

### 🚨 ESCALATION TRIGGERS
- Same error occurs more than once → Propose systemic solution
- Destructive operation detected → Request explicit confirmation
- No linter/formatter detected → Suggest adding one
- Documentation changes → Update all related references
- **Wrong terminal for task → Switch to appropriate terminal**

---

## ✅ SAFE OPERATIONS (PRE-APPROVED)

These actions are low-risk and do not require explicit approval each time:
- Read/search files, run scoped codebase searches, and list directories
- Start/stop local PHP server; run health checks and diagnostics
- Tail/read `php_errors.log` and verify cache directories/files
- Generate caches via admin/dashboard or run CLI tests to refresh data
- Create/switch local branches, stage commits; update local changelog/docs

### Approval still required
- Pushing to remotes, changing remotes, or force operations
- Destructive edits, mass refactors, or changes to auth/secrets
- Any operation impacting production infrastructure

---

## 🧠 TOKEN OPTIMIZATION PRACTICES

- Prefer file/path references and small excerpts over large pastes
- Read large artifacts directly from disk instead of copying into chat
- Batch routine checks (status/build/test/lint) to reduce round trips
- Start with scoped, semantic searches; expand only if no hits
- Use quick checks first: health endpoint, tail `php_errors.log`, list `cache/<ent>`

---

## 🖥️ DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT

### Terminal Configuration
- **Git Operations:** Git Bash (`C:\Program Files\Git\bin\bash.exe`) - **MANDATORY**
- **Server Management:** PowerShell 7 (pwsh) - **PREFERRED**
- **Development Tasks:** Context dependent - choose appropriate terminal
- **How to Open:** 
  - Windows Terminal: Configure profiles for PowerShell 7 (default) and Git Bash (git only)
  - VS Code/Cursor: Terminal dropdown → Select PowerShell 7 (pwsh) or Git Bash
  - Command Palette: "Terminal: Select Default Profile" → Choose PowerShell 7 (pwsh)
  - Direct: Run appropriate terminal executable

### Server Configuration
- **Type:** PHP built-in development server
- **Port:** 8000 (http://localhost:8000)
- **Directory:** Always start from `otter/` root
- **Health Check:** `http://localhost:8000/health_check.php`

### File Structure
- **Root:** `otter/` directory
- **Changelog:** `changelog.md` (root - single source of truth)
- **Config:** `config/` directory
- **Tests:** `tests/` directory
- **Assets:** `css/`, `js/`, `lib/` directories

### Path Implementation
- **Universal Relative Paths:** No environment detection needed
- **Simple URLs:** Direct relative paths (e.g., `assets/css/admin.css`)
- **Cross-Server Compatible:** Works on any server structure
- **PATH_INFO Handling:** Always clean PATH_INFO before redirects

---

## 🧪 TESTING PROTOCOL

### Pre-Testing Checklist
1. ✅ **Using appropriate terminal for task**
2. ✅ Server running: Check with appropriate command
3. ✅ PHP processes: Check with appropriate command
4. ✅ Working directory: Should show `otter/`
5. ✅ Error log: Check `php_errors.log`

### Testing Sequence
1. **Ensure appropriate terminal is active**
2. Start server with appropriate command
3. Wait 2-3 seconds for initialization
4. Use appropriate HTTP testing command
5. Verify response codes and content
6. Check PHP errors in terminal output
7. Review error log for details

### Error Recovery
- **Port conflicts:** Stop server with appropriate command or use different port
- **Server won't start:** Check PHP processes and port availability
- **Unexpected responses:** Check PHP syntax and error logs
- **Timeouts:** Verify server is actually running
- **Wrong terminal:** Switch to appropriate terminal for task

---

## 📝 CHANGELOG MANAGEMENT

### Commands
- **`changelog`:** Document all session changes
- **`changelog status`:** Document current application functionality

### Timestamp Generation
```bash
# Git Bash
date +"%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S"
```
```powershell
# PowerShell
Get-Date -Format "yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss"
```

### Changelog Location
`changelog.md` (root)

---

## 🔼 GIT PUSH WORKFLOW (USER SHORTCUT)

When the user types "push to github", perform these steps automatically:
1. Update the changelog with a new timestamped entry summarizing the changes.
2. Commit all changes locally using the new changelog entry header as the commit message.
3. Push the current branch to the remote using the same commit message.

---

## 🔒 SAFETY PROCEDURES

### Pre-Operation Checks
- **Verify appropriate terminal is active**
- Verify working directory: Should show `otter/`
- Check repository status: `git status` (Git Bash)
- Confirm branch: `git branch -a` (Git Bash)
- Backup changes: `git stash` if needed (Git Bash)

### Operation Validation
- Review changes: `git diff` (Git Bash)
- Validate staged: `git diff --cached` (Git Bash)
- Test functionality after commits
- Confirm remote operations before pushing

### Emergency Procedures
- **Git hangs:** Use Git Bash, or try `git config --global --unset core.pager`
- **Server issues:** Check port conflicts and PHP processes with appropriate terminal
- **AJAX fails:** Verify detection pattern and JSON formatting
- **Paths break:** Confirm relative path implementation
- **Wrong terminal:** Switch to appropriate terminal for task

---

## 🎯 SUCCESS CRITERIA
- ✅ **Appropriate terminal used for specific tasks**
- ✅ No duplicate code between classes
- ✅ Universal relative paths work across all scenarios
- ✅ Simple, consistent relative paths generated
- ✅ Specific, actionable error messages
- ✅ Simpler, more maintainable code
- ✅ Multi-enterprise architecture supported
- ✅ WCAG compliance maintained
- ✅ Clean implementation without legacy requirements

---

## 📋 COMMAND REFERENCE

### Git Bash Commands (Git Operations MANDATORY)
- Use `ls -la` to list files
- Use `pwd` to print working directory
- Use `git` commands for all version control operations
- Use `date +"%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S"` for timestamps

### PowerShell Commands (Server Management PREFERRED)
- Use `dir` or `ls` to list files
- Use `pwd` to print working directory
- Use `Test-NetConnection -ComputerName localhost -Port 8000` to check port status
- Use `tasklist | findstr php` to check PHP processes
- Use `taskkill /F /IM php.exe` to stop server
- Use `Invoke-WebRequest http://localhost:8000/health_check.php` for HTTP testing
- Use `Get-Date -Format "yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss"` for timestamps

### Git Commands (Git Bash MANDATORY)
```bash
git log --oneline -10
git diff
git branch -a
git status
git add .
git commit -m "message"
git push origin main  # NEVER without permission
git stash
git checkout -b feature-name
git checkout main
```

---

## 🚀 IMPLEMENTATION NOTES

### Critical Success Factors
1. **Use Git Bash for all Git operations**
2. **Use PowerShell for server management on Windows**
3. **Choose appropriate terminal for specific tasks**
4. **Never push to remote without explicit user permission**
5. **Follow AJAX detection patterns to prevent JSON errors**
6. **Execute all operations from otter/ directory**
7. **Document all changes in changelog**
8. **Test functionality after every significant change**

### Quality Assurance
- **Verify appropriate terminal is active before operations**
- Test all git operations before implementing
- Verify server functionality after changes
- Check for PHP syntax errors
- Validate AJAX responses
- Confirm WCAG compliance
- Maintain MVP focus throughout development

---

## 📚 DOCUMENTATION STANDARDS
- **Target Audience:** AI agents unless directed otherwise
- **Optimization:** Structure for AI agent comprehension and action
- **Clarity:** Use clear, actionable language
- **Completeness:** Provide sufficient context for autonomous operation
- **Terminal Focus:** Document appropriate terminal for each task type

---

## ⚠️ KNOWN ISSUES & BEST PRACTICES

### Git Bash Issues
- **Path Handling:** Git operations work best with Unix-style paths
- **Integration:** Native git integration prevents command conflicts
- **Process Management:** Limited Windows process management capabilities

### PowerShell Issues
- **Path Separators:** May need forward slashes for PHP commands
- **Git Integration:** Can have issues with git command integration
- **Process Management:** Excellent Windows process management

### Best Practices
- **Git Operations:** Always use Git Bash for reliability
- **Server Management:** Use PowerShell on Windows for better process control
- **Development Tasks:** Choose terminal based on specific task requirements
- **Documentation:** Always specify which terminal for which task
- **Testing:** Use PowerShell for Windows-specific diagnostics

---

*These optimized rules provide comprehensive guidance for AI agents working with this PHP project, emphasizing context-based terminal usage, automation-friendly procedures, safety measures, and MVP development principles.*
